Implementing Users:
    My first task was adding users via the backend into the database. The first part of this task was simply adding the user routes to the express app. At that point I was familiar with adding routes and developing the backend API. Adding a post /user route was simple, the harder part came with setting up our persistence. Adding the database container seemed easy in theory, but I ran into more hiccups than I expected. 

DataGrip and botpostgres
    The first issue I found was understanding how the names in the .env file map to the docker-compose file, and how they map to using DataGrip. I found got confused because the service, container name, and image name were all "postgres" I didn't know which ones to change for botpostgres. It was also confusing which names to use when connecting via DataGrip. After much trial and error, I finally figured out the image must remain postgres, the service name can remain postgres, the POSTGRES_DB is used in DataGrip, and the container name must not conflict with the doggr postgres container name.

    So, I named the service "postgres" because why change it. I named the container botpostgres because it is for BotanicalBuddies. I named the database botanicaldb because our naming scheme thus far has been botanical(thing). With that I could seed data and connect DataGrip to see the data. Great success!

Adding new data via Postman
    With the database up and running, and the seed data in place it was time to test the user route. I thought this would work, but I was proven wrong with a failure to connect to the database error. Not at all what I was expecting but it was time to press on. It was quite strange, my seed file could connect and create data, but the actual server could not. I searched over each file in the path for creating the user, comparing it to Doggr for sanity and I couldn't find any real difference. My next effort was to print the connection string and see if maybe there was something wrong with the format. It turned out that each of my environment variables were printed as undefined. It does make sense that "postgres://undefined:undefined@undefined:undefined/undefined" does not connect you to anything. So with this I could reexamine the problem from the perspective of the environment variables. This was the ticket because I looked again at how to load environment variables and found I was missing one line from the server start up "import "dotenv/config";" Without this line, the server can't load the environment variables. This fixed my problem, and I got the backend creating users and saving them to the database. Great success!

Checking in:
    Checking in with George went well. We both were able to get our tasks done and having Doggr really helped both of us to get through a few hiccups. I shared with him my problem with the dotenv/config in case he ever ran into that issue in the future. For next steps we could start working on individual features. I was very interested in getting started on the .NET microservice which was the final piece of our architecture. My initial idea was that the microservice would find a list of known plants so users could get a consistent list of plants with which to create profiles. We also needed a way to add profiles in general. So, our next feature set became George adding plant profiles to the front end and backend while I would start on getting a .NET microservice for reading the list of plant types that exist already. 
