Adapting PlantService to ForumService
    Adapting the PlantService into the ForumService was easy enough. I had created PlantService so all I really needed to do was change some names and numbers. The real trick here was figuring out how to get EF core to automatically apply thread IDs, post IDs, and creation dates to the rows when I added them to the database. This came for free with Sequelize, but I needed to figure out how to get EF Core to cooperate. 

    I tried by adding an attribute tag to those fields in the class. That didn't seem to take because it kept expecting a datetime to not be null, but I was expecting it to be handled. The way that I found it to work was the set the ThreadID/ PostID for the seed data, but add to the configuration set up .ValueGeneratedOnAdd(). That was the trick for future adds to increment. For the DateTime, I could live that null, but I had to add .HasDefaultValueSql("NOW()") which would give the default value of NOW() when the DateTime wasn't set. 

    Outside of that, adding another table for posts was nearly identical to making the threads table, just one extra column for the thread id. Organizing my routes for the API was also straightforward. I needed routes to get and create individual threads and posts. A way to get threads according to the userid. And finally a way to get posts according the the threadid, or userid. 

Handling User State
    George did a great job setting up the Authentication and password handling in the front end and back end. I just needed to update a few things to get it working. Number one I added a bulkCreate hashing method to the user model because I noticed the seed data wasn't being bulk created with hashed passwords. Once that was done, I needed to add the AuthService to properly handle if the user was logged in or not and show pages accordingly. This wasn't too bad either. Following the example in class I added the AuthService and the ProtectedRoute component. I wrapped each route in the ProtectedRoute component so it would hide it. I updated the nav menu to either show the login page, or a logout button. Lastly, I added a link between the login page and create user page so someone could go between them if they do or do not have an account. Lastly, the landing page if you are logged in is the profile page.

Adding Forums to the Front End
    First step was to get the front end correctly sending requests to ForumService. I thought this would be pretty simple to add a ForumService with a new HttpClient class and send new route requests. I was mistaken because I didn't fully understand what CORS is. I have since learned that CORS stands for Cross-Origin Requests and it ensures that the request has come from particular addresses. I eventually found out how to inject CORS into the ForumService and update it to send CORS headers to the localhost:3000 origin. I'm sure that will cause me trouble later when I need to change the front end app name at some point. With that out of the way I could connect to the ForumService from the react front end and get all of our threads!
    
    Next step was to organize the ForumService into a front end that made sense. I began with a page just to show all of the threads available. Each thread would be a link to another page. I ran into a small hitch when I attempted thread creation. In order to use the thread creation routes I needed the user id of the currently logged in user. I took a look at the token object and tried to see if I could extract the user id from that. No luck. Instead I decided to save the user id to a state when the user logged in. Then I could access it from the auth service in the same way other components access the token. With that idea it was just a matter of understanding how to save the state and unpack the state later. Having the user id, I could actually make new threads and have them redirect to a new ThreadPage that will show the posts.

    Post creation went quite smoothly. Finally a feature implementation with no networking error, everything worked on the first try. With access to the user id already available, sending a post creation request was simple. The more difficult part was making the page react appropriately when posts were added to a thread. I needed the new post to actually be added to the page, which I did by adding a post refresh state to the page. UseEffect is updated to depend on this state and will run when the value changes. Therefore, the state is changed to true on post creation, then UseEffect is changed back to false. I also needed the post creation form to close and reset after post creation so I added those state updated after the post creation. 

    We now have a fully functioning (hideous) ForumService front to back. Great success!