Beautify the Threads page
    Having put so much work into the backend, I initially did the absolute minimum for the frontend. My forums page was simply a list of links to threads. My thread page was just a blob of text, completely disorganized. My buttons were smashing into each other, and my text was all ramming into the left side of the window. I figured I with how much work was put into the backend I needed to make the frontend do justice to it. 
    
    First, I began with spacing and layout. I added containers so the text wasn't up against the window border. I also added margins around the buttons so they had proper spacing. This cleaned up the forums page quite a bit. With the buttons properly spaced, and the threads neatly printed, it looked a lot better. The threads page needed some serious work though. I formatted the thread to put the title in bold, the body neatly under it, and finally the user, date time, and tag. I also added line separation between the title, and each post. The posts also needed to be cleaned up to include the user, date time, and tag neatly under the post itself. This was looking much better and much more like a real forum page. 

    My final touch to the front page was a color palatte. I started with the buttons being the built in green color, and the background being the built in light green color. This was hideous because first, too much green, second the built in light green was rather neon. So I used a color picker and went searching. I found a lighter more mutted green that was more like how I imagined for the background. For the buttons and links I wanted and accent color and I was actually inspired by a plant that I have with dark green leaves and pink patterns. So I made the accent color pink. Applying this everywhere was pretty easy thanks to the .css file. I added classes for link, link hover, button, and button hover. Applying that class everywhere was much easier and cleaner than applying the color and styling on every button. Great success!
    